snakemake/{{cookiecutter.project_name}}/README.md, before:

# {{cookiecutter.project_name}}
*{{cookiecutter.author}}  
{{cookiecutter.affiliation}}*

[General information about the project]

## Snakemake pipeline execution
Snakemake is a workflow management system that helps to create and execute data processing pipelines. It requires Python 3 and can be most easily installed via the bioconda package from the anaconda cloud service.

### Step 1: Download and installation of Miniconda3
Linux:
  ```bash
  wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  source .bashrc
  ```

macOS:
  ```bash
  wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
  bash Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
  source .bashrc
  ```

### Step 2: Snakemake installation

Unless a  specific snakemake version is specified explicitly it is most likely the best choice to install the latest version:
  ```bash
  conda install -c bioconda snakemake
  ```

In case you are missing some dependancy packages please install them first (with `conda install ...` as well).

### Step 3: Pipeline execution
Specify all the required information (input/output/parameters) in the config.yaml 

Write a DAG (directed acyclic graph) into dag.pdf:
  ```bash
  bash snakemake.dag_run
  ```
If you are happy with the execution plan, run the pipeline locally:
  ```bash
  bash snakemake.local_run
  ```
or on a cluster environment (it might be required to adapt the 'cluster_config.json' and 'jobscript.sh' files before starting the run):
  ```bash
  bash snakemake.cluster_run
  ```

## License

{{cookiecutter.license}}

Commit message:

snakemake: Readme updated with four execution options, Snakemake typos fixed

snakemake/{{cookiecutter.project_name}}/README.md, after:

# {{cookiecutter.project_name}}
*{{cookiecutter.author}}  
{{cookiecutter.affiliation}}*

[General information about the project]

## Snakemake pipeline execution
Snakemake is a workflow management system that helps to create and execute data processing pipelines. It requires Python 3 and can be most easily installed via the bioconda package from the anaconda cloud service.

### Step 1: Download and installation of Miniconda3
Linux:
  ```bash
  wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
  source .bashrc
  ```

macOS:
  ```bash
  wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
  bash Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
  source .bashrc
  ```

### Step 2: Snakemake installation

Unless a  specific snakemake version is specified explicitly it is most likely the best choice to install the latest version:
  ```bash
  conda install -c bioconda snakemake
  ```

In case you are missing some dependancy packages please install them first (with `conda install ...` as well).

### Step 3: Pipeline execution
Specify all the required information (input/output/parameters) in the config.yaml 

Write a DAG (directed acyclic graph) into dag.pdf:
  ```bash
  bash snakemake_dag_run.sh
  ```

There are four scripts to start the pipeline, depending on whether you want to run locally/on a SLURM computational cluster and if you prefer to use conda virtual environment or a specific container from dockerhub. For the cluster execution it might be required to adapt the 'cluster_config.json' and 'jobscript' files before starting the run:
  ```bash
  bash snakemake_local_run_conda_env.sh
  bash snakemake_cluster_run_conda_env.sh
  bash snakemake_local_run_singularity_container.sh
  bash snakemake_cluster_run_singularity_container.sh
  ```

## License

{{cookiecutter.license}}
